Welcome to an overview
of QuickTime Codecs,
session 702.
My name is Dennis Backus.
I'm a senior technical manager
in the marketing group at Apple.
And it's my very,
very distinct pleasure to introduce
from Ursa Major Media-- I got it right--
Cliff VanMeeter.
Cliff's been in the
QuickTime business for how many years?
Fifteen minutes now.
Fifteen minutes.
Yeah.
We pulled him off the street.
No, no.
About almost ten years.
He also runs a really interesting site.
If you guys haven't seen it,
you should go take a look at it.
It's called QuickTiming.org.
It's a very good destination
site for all things QuickTime.
Both third-party products,
Apple announcements,
and all sorts of things
that you've never heard of.
But need to use.
So without further ado,
let me bring Clifford on stage.
Question and answer we want
to hold to the very end.
And we want to make sure that we
use the microphones so that we can
pick this up for the recording.
Okay?
Thanks.
That's so cool, I get applause,
I haven't even done anything yet.
I love that.
Okay, so I'm going to talk a little bit
to you about QuickTime Codecs.
I'll try to get through,
give you a little bit of information,
kind of an overview of the different
QuickTime codecs that are available,
what they're good for,
what you might want to use them
for in a production environment,
which ones are not
really all that useful.
You probably want to skip over.
As you all might know,
QuickTime supports about
200 different media types.
Sometimes that can make it a little
bit confusing as a technology,
because out of 200 media types,
you're often faced with the question of,
okay, 200, yeah, but which one do I need
for what I'm doing today?
So, we're going to try and
cover some of that,
like I said.
and Armu with enough information so
that the next project that comes up,
you'll be able to at least ask
some intelligent questions.
So, what I want to cover specifically
Criteria for choosing a codec,
categories and types of codec,
strengths and weaknesses of
different types of codecs,
where you might want to use them,
like I said,
and also give you some resources
where you can learn more.
So, I'm not going to put a lot of time
and effort in the beginning of this
talking about exactly how codecs
work or exactly what they do.
I do want to cover just a little bit
of information on codecs in general.
Basically,
we use codecs for three reasons:
save space and transfer time,
save bandwidth, or save processor cycles,
get them to play on older,
slower machines.
If you're looking at
uncompressed NTSC video,
you're talking about 30 frames a
second at two fields per second,
or 60 images at 64480, or 27 megabytes of
information passing through.
If you've got a brand
new dual processor G5,
you might be able to
get playback from that.
But specifically on older machines,
or if you're transmitting video,
want to transmit video over the web,
or put it on a CD-ROM,
that's going to be problematic.
The DV codec, which compresses to
about 5:1 compression,
is kind of my example here,
just to kind of work the math.
So if we're looking at 27 megabytes per
second transfer with uncompressed video,
we're looking at about
3.5 megabytes per second,
or about 30,000 kilobits
per second with DV,
which is probably the codec that
y'all are most familiar with,
because it's what every digital
video camera out there uses.
Essentially,
you've got two types of compression.
I tend to break things
down this way a lot.
You're going to hear me say
there's two types of this,
two types of that quite a bit.
For some reason,
it just works out that way.
So, with video compressors,
image compressors, audio,
or specifically with video
compressors and image compressors,
you've got spatial compression
and temporal compression.
Spatial compression is what's used for
most codecs that you'd be familiar with
for images like JPEG and PING and GIF,
where it's essentially either
finding a way to copy the same
information more efficiently,
or it's throwing out some
information so that it's not just
a copy of the same information.
it stores it in a smaller format.
Temporal compression is
compression over time,
hence the stopwatch.
[Transcript missing]
An example of spatial compression.
Typically, when you write an image
in an uncompressed format,
in some manner you're recording the
information as individual data blocks
for individual pixels in that image.
So in other words,
the pixel with coordinate x equals
zero and y equals zero is black.
And what happens with uncompressed data
is that amount of information is stored
for every single individual pixel.
It's a little bit as if in your
on your Palm Pilot,
you wrote out Monday 12:30 lunch,
Tuesday 12:30 lunch,
Wednesday 12:30 lunch, etc., etc., etc.
So what the compressor does is
it finds a more efficient way
of writing that information.
It essentially says,
Monday through Friday, 12:30, lunch.
So it's getting rid of information
without getting rid of data.
Does that make sense to everybody?
Good.
I like to see the nodding,
not the shaking.
Um, JPEG,
my two examples here are TIFF and JPEG.
TIFF is essentially a
lossless compressor.
So it finds an efficient way of writing
that information without actually
throwing out any of the important data.
You don't lose any of the image.
JPEG is a lossy compressor,
so it does throw out some information.
It starts out at higher
levels of compression,
throwing out information that's
theoretically beyond human perception.
So, colors that we can't see,
bits of detail that are mathematically
able to be generated but can't
really be perceived by people.
As you squeeze it
further and further down,
it begins to throw out more
and more important information.
So it, in effect, degrades the image.
You're sacrificing image
quality to recover some size.
So here's an example of the
same image compressed at three
different levels with JPEG.
If you look really
carefully right in here,
and right in here and in the table here,
this is the least amount of compression.
So, it's the most image information,
the least amount of compression.
So, you don't see a lot of artifacting,
you don't see a lot of
little sort of schmutz.
Technical term.
Should write that one down.
When you look at this one,
this is the highest compression.
You can start right in here,
particularly, to see some artifacting.
In other words,
JPEG is averaging information
across a group of pixels.
So that it can store the resulting
information in a smaller format.
And then this is medium compression,
which is still pretty decent quality,
but just in a few areas,
particularly in the
stained glass in here.
And like right around in here,
you can start to see some artifacting.
So, temporal compression is what
we typically use for video.
And really good codecs, MPEG-4, Sorenson,
use a combination of spatial
compression and temporal compression.
In other words,
the temporally compressed frames,
you're throwing out more data,
The codec is examining the
video and trying to get just
the information that's changed.
So from frame one to frame two,
the second frame,
it's trying to store just the
difference between those two things.
And in fact, that second kind of frame,
we call a delta frame
or a difference frame.
Then every once in a
while it sets a keyframe,
which is the nice, pristine,
temporally compressed image.
Uh, spatially compressed image.
So here's an example
with Cinepac compression.
CinePack is kind of an old codec,
but it shows the
differences off really nice.
Here's the keyframe.
Which has a fair amount of detail,
even though it's obviously
being blown up quite a bit here,
and you're getting a lot of jaggies.
And then here's the delta frame,
or difference frame.
So you can see it's not storing
the same amount of detail at all.
Much more detail over here,
much less here.
And in large part, we get away with that
because video moves.
So we don't always have to be presenting
the same level of information to the
viewer because it sticks in their brain.
They don't see the fact that we're
degrading from one image to the next.
So,
here are the video rules of reduction.
There's three ways to reduce
file size and/or bandwidth
requirements for a piece of video.
You can reduce the data rate, that is,
increase the compression.
You can reduce the
physical size of the image,
reduce the number of pixels.
So instead of 640 by 480, you do...
"You can reduce the size,
you can reduce the requirements,
or you can reduce the frame rate,
reduce the number of images that
you're storing in that video.
All of those things allow us to
deliver video through a narrower pipe."
So these are the things that I looked at.
If you go to QuickTiming.org,
go to the resources section,
you'll find a little place
that I call Codec Central,
partly as an homage to the
old Terran Codec Central.
And in Codec Central,
I did a comparison of basically
every codec I could get my hands on.
So I sat down and I figured out exactly
what it is that I want to compare and
what my standards were going to be
for comparing one codec to another.
And pretty much in this presentation
I'm going to use those same standards.
And what I look at is quality, size,
compatibility, and usability.
So for compatibility specifically,
I looked at a couple of different things.
One is, if
How old a version of
QuickTime will play it?
Can you play this codec in QuickTime 2?
Can you play it in QuickTime 5 and above?
I also looked at
compatibility cross-platform.
Does it work on Windows?
Does it work on Macs?
Does it work on Linux?
And I also looked at compatibility
with other players besides QuickTime.
Okay, it's math.
I'm not going to spend
a lot of time on this.
This is Sorenson's formula for
kind of helping you figure out what
data rates you want to shoot for,
for a given audience.
Okay?
And the idea here is you want to look at,
Coming up with a number
based on this formula.
Once you've come up with that number,
usually your best quality is going to
be at no more than half that number,
and you probably aren't going to have
to go to more than twice that number.
Now I'll be honest with you,
from what I've seen so far of H.264,
this may all be kind of irrelevant.
Okay,
so back to that two types thing again.
There's two types of video codecs.
Transfer codecs and delivery codecs.
Transfer codecs,
are used to move video from
one location to another,
generally within a
production environment.
So a transfer codec,
I used to work for a video
effects house out in LA,
and generally we used Animation Best,
which is a lossless codec
when you're at that level,
at best.
And that allowed us to
get smaller file sizes,
reduce our transfer
times over the network.
Pixlet is another example
of a transfer codec.
It doesn't give you the kinds
of file sizes that you're going
to need to be able to deliver,
say, over the internet,
to deliver web video.
But it is going to give you
minimally lossy or lossless quality.
Now the other thing is delivery codecs.
Delivery codecs are going to
give you just a whole heck
of a lot more compression.
But are going to throw
out some information.
You're going to sacrifice
quality to get playability.
So the first thing we're going
to look at is delivery codecs.
Now with delivery codecs,
I'm sorry, I was distracted by the
shiny thing at my feet.
With delivery codecs,
you're typically going to see compression
rates somewhere up into the 90%.
So if you have a one megabyte file,
or let's say you have
a one gigabyte file,
with a 90%, even 99% compression,
you're talking about being able to
compress it down to a few megabytes.
[Transcript missing]
So I was in the room last night
making a few little changes.
The first thing we're gonna look at
is the current MPEG-4 in QuickTime,
which is...
For simplicity's sake,
if you'll pardon the pun,
the best way to refer to it,
I've found so far, is MPEG-4 simple,
because it's based on the
advanced simple profile.
Good quality.
It's currently... It's somewhat
limited by the current MPEG-4 spec.
The...
MPEG-4 Simple has been
around for a long time.
How many people have ever seen MPEG-3?
Yeah, see, nobody's seen MPEG-3.
It didn't exist because nobody
could agree on what the heck it was.
So they skipped over
from MPEG-2 to MPEG-4.
And it took them a long
time to come up with MPEG-4.
And by the time everybody got
their ducks in a row on it,
it had already been surpassed by some
more modern codecs like Sorenson 3.
So the quality is OK.
It's good.
We're going to look at
264 here in a second,
which completely blows it away.
The size is good.
The compatibility is excellent.
works in QuickTime, works in Reel,
there's a ton of third
party players out there,
and it's been around since the
introduction of QuickTime 6.
So, which has been a while now.
And it's a good general purpose codec.
H.264 or AVC,
which is Advanced Video Codec.
Quick overview here.
Excellent, excellent, excellent,
excellent.
We're not going to see it for a while.
So we're going to talk about
some of the other codecs as well.
I'm in the same boat that
the rest of you all are in.
I'm going to go home and I'm going to
play around with it and see what I get.
But again,
from everything I've seen so far,
This is going to be the way
to go for most general purpose
encoding come early next year.
Sorenson Video 3 is my current
favorite general purpose codec.
It's higher quality than MPEG-4.
[Transcript missing]
I actually started out as an illustrator,
so I'm something of an image snob.
For pure quality,
if I'm looking to go with something
that's just got to be pretty,
I always fall back to SV3.
Quality is excellent, the size is good,
compatibility is good,
and the usability is good.
Now,
notice my little footnote down there.
We'd be having a different
discussion a year from now.
Now, Sorenson also has an MPEG-4 codec
that is slightly different from
Apple's MPEG-4 codec encoder.
And that's included with
Sorenson Squeeze Suite.
You get MPEG-4, you get SV3,
and you get the Spark codec,
which is for Flash, which kind of sucks,
but you know,
you've got to take the bad with the good.
Good, good, excellent, good.
Again, it's based on the MPEG-4 spec.
It's ISO compliant,
so anything that plays MPEG-4 is going
to play the Sorenson codec as well.
Usability is good.
It's still limited by the
MPEG-4 simple profile.
It doesn't have the level of
quality that you're going to see
with some proprietary codecs,
and it doesn't have the level
of quality that H.264 is going
to bring us in a few months.
3IVX is, at this point,
my favorite MPEG-4 variant.
By the way, just so everyone knows,
all opinions expressed during
this presentation are mine.
It's very good quality.
gives you excellent size.
The compatibility is excellent.
It's right now already works
for a number of set-top boxes,
a number of players.
It's very widespread on
the Windows platform.
And I think the usability is excellent
because of all those reasons.
H.263 is mostly kind of
irrelevant at this point,
but I wanted to touch on most of
what you see when you pop up that
little export menu in QuickTime Pro.
It's marginal quality, good size,
very good compatibility.
It's been around for a long time.
But I still find the usability is poor.
Now that said,
there are instances where I will
fall back to H.263 because it
has very low processor overhead.
So I've used it to do things like,
I built a video puzzle for a client,
where you actually can grab pieces
of the video and move them around,
and all the video is moving on all
the pieces all at the same time.
Now, if I tried to do that with SV3 on
anything made before the last two years,
it would choke and die.
But with H263, it was light enough
that it actually worked.
And in that particular instance,
quality was not paramount,
playability was.
Zygo Video is another codec
that I like a whole lot.
It's a third-party
codec from Zygo Digital,
I think.
They just changed their name.
It's the codec I generally go to
these days if I'm doing live streams.
It's, again, quality is good.
At high data rates,
it's clearly inferior to SV3 and MPEG-4,
either Apple's or Sorenson's.
Um, but at very low data rates,
it really starts to pull ahead of just
about everything else that's out there.
And when you're doing
encoding for streaming,
you don't have the luxury of
the kind of spikes that you get,
data rate spikes that you
get with something like SV3.
You need something
that's going to give you,
well, you know,
that's just going to get it there.
So, compatibility is fair.
It's not part of the QuickTime delivery
when you install QuickTime.
It's something that people will
have to go and get and download
to be able to look at your video.
And I always think of
that as a disadvantage.
But I've used it in a couple of places
where I have clients who are delivering
real streams inside the enterprise,
and I essentially have control
over what goes on all the
machines within the enterprise.
So I can say, this has to be installed on
everybody's machine for them
to watch the president's talk.
Okay, side-by-side comparison.
Okay, I worked hard on this.
Ooh, ah, make noises, geez.
I know you're out there,
I can hear you breathing.
Okay, so, this is 3IVX.
This piece is Apple's MPEG, simple codec.
And this is the SP3 codec.
So you can clearly see that
there's a little bit of quality
difference between the three.
I actually tried to get it so that
the quality was about the same,
because this is what
I really wanted to show you.
Even when the quality is the same,
the math is not.
3IVX, I got a file size of 428
kilobytes at a data rate of 105.
With Apple's MPEG,
I got a file size of one
megabyte and a data rate of 254.
There's not a tremendous difference
in quality between those two things,
is there?
But I'm getting a much more
deliverable file size with this.
And then even SV3 in this particular
instance came out a little bit ahead.
So, on the encode side though,
Apple's MPEG-4 had the
fastest encode time,
SV3 had the slowest, and 3IVX came out
somewhere in the middle.
These are, by the way, my three choices.
If you're doing web video or CD-ROM,
I nearly always go with
one of these three.
3IVX has the disadvantage, again,
that they're going to have to
go and get it and download it,
or you're going to have to include
it in an installer on a CD if
you're distributing that way.
Apple's MPEG-4 and SV3 are both part
of the current QuickTime distribution.
Transfer Codecs.
As I said, Transfer Codecs exist so that
we can compress a little bit,
retain the information,
and move things more easily
from one place to another.
Hence the transfer.
So, DV.
I've got like six slides worth of DV.
It's like they're all-- I'm going to
I feel like they're all Baptists,
but some of them are Southern Baptists,
and some of them are like, you know,
Evangelical,
and there's a few Pentecostals, and,
you know, they're all over the place.
So, DV comes in,
or to put it another way,
DV comes in multiple
flavors in QuickTime.
And some of these are
more for the pro apps,
and some of them are sort of the
standard DV that you're seeing
when you go out and buy a camera.
I'm really going to kind of blow
through these a little bit quickly.
But I want to give you
a little bit of an idea.
DVNTSC and PAL, quality is good,
size is fair, compatibility is excellent,
usability is good.
DVC Pro,
Yeah, it's about the same.
About the same.
Okay, so we've worked our way past DV,
and now we're to my current
favorite transfer codec.
Which is animation.
And as I was mentioning before,
back when I worked in the
visual effects company,
animation is what we typically use to
move things from one machine to another.
Or make a file small enough,
a scene file small enough that we
could write it to a CD and deliver it
to a client or do something like that.
At 100% animation is lossless.
Um, it may also not do a whole heck
of a lot of compressing for you.
Because it was really designed to work
primarily with large flat areas of color.
And with large flat areas of color,
you can get really phenomenal
levels of compression.
But if you're looking at standard video,
at best,
you're only going to get about 50%. Now,
that's not so bad.
50% is about what you can expect
from most lossless codecs.
Animation also has the
advantage that it supports,
somewhere here,
Might not be there.
Anyway, it has the advantage that
it supports transparency,
so it supports alpha channels.
So if you're working in
After Effects or something like that,
it's a good codec to work in.
It's going to save you a
little bit of drive space,
and it's going to allow you
to work with alpha channels.
And in general,
just about any professional
video editing application is
going to support animation.
Pixlet.
Pixlet's new.
I don't know how many of you
guys have had a chance to play
around with it a little bit.
Pixlet does a really,
really good job as a transfer codec.
It is lossy, not lossless.
So you are going to give up some data.
Making it a real good archive codec,
but you don't want to be opening files
and resaving them over and over again,
because you're going to
continue to throw stuff away.
Good size,
you can get a 6GB file down at near
DVD quality down to about 250MB.
That's pretty decent savings.
If you're hurting for hard drive space,
it's a real good way to go.
I listed the compatibility
as poor though.
Right now it really only works in
OS X and that's kind of limited.
As I say, usability is limited.
Shear Video is a third-party
codec that I also like very
much as a transfer codec.
It is completely lossless and
preserves the image perfectly.
It's only going to give you
about two to one compression.
It's OS X only.
In general,
I would try animation best first
and use Pixlet as a fallback,
unless you happen to work in
a studio that is all OS X G5s.
This is the best way to save and
transfer video if you can afford it.
Apple None is none, no compression.
It's completely uncompressed format.
It's going to take up one
heck of a lot of drive space,
but if you're pulling it
into other applications like
After Effects or Final Cut or
something like that to work on it,
and you're likely to have to be
moving files around and chopping them
up and saving them multiple times,
and you've got the room,
that's the best way
to move things around.
Otherwise,
go with animation best as your first try,
and then go to something like Shear
Video or Pixlet as your second pass
if animation isn't giving you the
kind of compression that you need.
So other codecs.
There are a bunch of other video codecs.
Digital Anarchy makes
one called Microcosm,
which is a 64-bit lossless codec.
The last time I looked,
the only thing that really supported
64-bit video was After Effects,
I think 6.
So that makes it poor in
the compatibility front.
Digital Anarchy also makes
something called NUN16,
which again is a 64-bit lossless,
no compression codec.
TechSmith makes a codec called InSharpen,
which was really designed
for doing screen captures.
It deals with detailed things
like text extremely well.
Again, excellent quality, good size,
poor compatibility.
It's not part of the standard
QuickTime distribution.
It's not part of the
Apple component download program.
They have to know where it is,
they have to go,
they have to hunt it out,
they've got to download
it if they want to use it.
And then there's a whole
bunch of legacy codecs,
of which the only one that's
really notable at all,
I think, is Cinepac.
And that's only because Cinepac has
made something of a comeback in the
last year or so as the compressor
of choice for the Konoma Player,
which allows you to play
back movies on Palm devices.
Audio Codecs.
It's that two kinds of thing thing again.
There's two kinds of audio codecs.
I amuse myself.
Um, oops, sorry,
let me go back just a sec.
Basically, the human ear is more
sensitive to slight variations
When you're listening to things
like music and sound effects,
then you are when you're listening
to things like the human voice.
So there's really two kinds of
codecs for dealing with audio.
There are codecs that are really
good at compressing sounds,
Like music, like sound effects,
et cetera, et cetera.
And there are codecs that are
really good at compressing voice.
And as long as you don't get
these two things confused,
you'll do fine.
When I looked at these codecs
that we're about to go through,
in terms of usability, compatibility,
etc., you'll often see
that what I'm saying is,
for what they're designed for,
they're excellent.
But if you try to use a...
"If you use a codec that was designed
for dealing with the voice to compress
something like music or sound effects,
you're not going to get a
pleasant sounding result.
And if you try to use a codec
that was designed more to handle
music and general compression,
you're not going to get
as much compression."
So, again, I'm going to skip over a
little bit of the detail,
but basically,
music and audio CDs use AIF,
which is an uncompressed sample.
They sample the audio
44,100 times per second,
or 44.1 kilohertz,
have a data rate of about 150,
So one minute of uncompressed audio
is about 11 megabytes of storage.
And that's why on your 650,
700 megabyte CD, you don't get 100 songs.
So again, with the rules of reduction.
There are three ways, strangely enough,
to reduce the size and bandwidth
requirements for audio.
You can reduce the sample rate.
In other words,
if you go down from 44.1 to 22 or to 11,
You're reducing the sample rate,
you're reducing the size of the audio.
You can reduce the range of the sound,
which in other words,
flatten out the highs and lows.
Or you can shorten the clips duration.
Now you see really,
you think about these,
they equate on an almost
one-to-one basis with how video
codecs rules of reductions work.
This is the same as
reducing the image size,
this is the same as
increasing the compression,
and this is the same as
reducing the frame rate.
Okay, audio codecs.
MP3.
MP3 bugs me.
I have this whole thing about
language and the misuse of it.
MPEG-1 Layer 3 audio.
It's not MPEG-3, it's MPEG-1,
which is actually getting kind of
long in the tooth at this point,
and probably should
be put out to pasture.
Um, quality is good.
I don't think it does very
well below 128 kilohertz.
So, size is good, a whole lot smaller
than AIF or WAV files.
Compatibility is excellent.
You can't fault MP3 for compatibility.
I think there are probably shoes at this
point that will play back MP3 files.
If not, I'm sure having said that,
somebody will have one on the market
sometime in the next couple weeks.
So, and the usability overall is good.
You've got to be willing to sacrifice
a little size in favor of playability,
but it does have its advantages.
However,
This is my current favorite audio codec.
The AAC codec, which you'll notice by
the way is excellent,
excellent, excellent,
and say it with me now.
Okay, good.
Uh, that's it.
Okay, so...
128k.
Now remember I said MP3 is below 128k.
Most people don't think
it sounds all that well.
128k stereo has been judged
indistinguishable from
the uncompressed source.
And this is by, I don't know,
a whole bunch of people are
supposed to know this stuff.
You know, by audio files.
Much smaller files than
MP3 at much higher quality.
Cross-platform, cross-player,
and cross-device compatibility is
what the MPEG-4 spec is all about.
AAC has pretty widespread
support at this point,
even if you ignore iTunes and the iPod,
and God knows it's awful
hard to do that these days.
So, and, you know, flat out,
it's quite possibly the only audio codec
you're really going to need to use.
It is a terrific general purpose codec.
Does a nice job with voice,
does a fantastic job with
music and sound effects.
I haven't had a chance to play a whole
lot yet with the Apple lossless encoder,
which is relatively new.
I think it came out in 6.5.1.
Is that right, Amy?
Something like that?
Okay.
Anyway, it's new.
And the quality is excellent.
I mean, you can't beat lossless.
Lossless is, well, lossless.
The size is good.
Again, it's a lossless encoder.
You're going to get around
50%, something like that.
Compatibility, eh, not so good.
It's very new.
You can get it to work with iTunes,
you can get it to work with 651,
not a whole lot else right now.
It's a nice format if you're going to
store a whole bunch of music on your
hard drive for playback in iTunes,
and you want to squeeze those down,
and you don't want to sacrifice
any of the quality at all.
IMA41.
For a long time,
this was my codec of choice.
It was also the codec of choice
for a lot of people who do,
like,
the movie trailers and things like that.
It does a terrific job
with sound quality.
I used to work for Sorenson at
their Burbank Encoding Center.
We did some tests with it.
And compressing with IMA41,
we discovered that it even retained
the 5.1 surround sound information.
It doesn't give you a lot of compression,
though.
The size is only good.
Compatibility is only good.
It's been around for a long time.
But it doesn't always give you
what you expect when you move
from one platform to another.
The usability is good.
It's great for high bandwidth projects.
It's what I will generally use if
I'm going to a project on CD-ROM.
And I know I'm going to be playing back
through a computer stereo speaker system.
I want something really, really nice.
Qualcomm PureVoice.
Now again,
you're going to see my little caveat
with this one in the next slide.
When used as intended,
Qualcomm PureVoice is, you guessed it,
a voice compression codec.
It was actually designed
for use with telephones.
does a fantastic job with speech.
At really high levels
of compression though,
it can sound kind of tinny and flat.
Sounds a little bit like you're
talking into a paper tube.
and Chris Bates, and I'll be joined by
Dennis and Clifford.
I would go here if you want to get
the best compression to size ratio.
I'm going to compress the crap
out of it with this codec.
Compatibility is good.
It's been around with every
QuickTime distribution since version 3.
Limited tonal range makes the usefulness
for music and sound effects limited.
As I said,
this is an excellent codec when you apply
it to what it's intended to be used for.
If you try to use it for something else,
you're not going to get
a very pleasant result.
Okay.
Cuedesign Music 2 is another one that's
been around for a very long time.
It does a wonderful job with music.
Overall, I think it's comparable
to MP3 in general quality.
I think AAC beats the pants off of it,
but it comes in a solid second.
Other codecs again.
There are a bunch of other
codecs that you'll see.
MACE is a legacy codec.
16-bit, big and little Indian,
24 and 30-bit Integer, and ULAW.
And these are all, unless you're doing
really high-end stuff,
like you're an audio engineer,
these aren't really going to
be terribly useful to you.
ULAW is a Unix standard,
and MACE is a legacy codec
that's completely outclassed by
any of the more modern codecs.
Here's a little comparison.
This is AIFF uncompressed audio.
So this is what you hear
off your CD player at home.
Same thing as AAC.
22 kilohertz compression,
96 kilobits per second.
The file size is 212K.
Backing up again.
I thought I was backing up.
There we go.
Compared to 3.4 megabytes, 172.
Okay, let's crank it up, boys.
Back again.
Come on.
There we go.
That's... How many people
hear a substantial difference
between those two things?
[Transcript missing]
I think for the vast majority of people,
they're not going to hear a substantial
difference between those two things.
But when you look at the data rate,
the file size,
you see there is a phenomenal
difference between those two things.
And that's why AAC is
currently my favorite codec.
In fact, I'll often combine,
if I really need good quality,
I'll combine SV3 video
with AAC encoded audio,
put those two things together,
and you get a hell of a mix.
I said hell.
I said hell twice.
I said hell three times.
Oh, okay.
Anyway, a note on image codecs.
I'm not going to go through all
of the veritable cornucopia of
image codecs that are available
to you working in QuickTime,
but I did want to touch on just a couple
of them and give you a little bit of
an idea about what makes these three
particular codecs kind of special.
I love this codec.
This is my favorite image codec.
I'm crazy about ping.
Particularly Ping in QuickTime.
I do a lot of stuff with wired sprites.
And Ping is great for
very low overhead stuff.
It just works really nicely.
It's got sophisticated alpha
channels so you can do much nicer
compositing than what you could
do with something like say GIF.
And for
For flat tonal images,
you're going to get better compression
than you do with GIF files.
In fact, about 30% better.
And for, it can't,
even though it's a little bit larger
than JPEG when you use it on continuous
tone images like photographs,
I really like the quality a lot better.
And, unlike JPEG,
PNG is a lossless compression format.
So, it, it's, it's, it's
Which is to say that it compresses
similarly to what GIF does,
which compresses by
limit... hello... I'm sorry.
Compresses by limiting the
number of colors in the color
palette that it's working with.
The image.
It's supported on every
browser and platform and in
QuickTime since very early on.
The usability is excellent.
For working with images,
for working with, particularly with wired
sprites in QuickTime,
or any kind of image file in QuickTime,
Ping is my go-to guy.
I always use Ping.
Even for most of the web
work I do these days,
I avoid using GIFs and
JPEGs and I stick with PNG.
Oh, nobody's even going to go, oh, OK.
This is my dog.
His name is Lorcan Kukiran.
It's Gaelic.
It means fierce black hound.
Anyway, so here's a comparison.
You may have noticed
I like to do these things.
So, here is ping 224K with transparency.
Nice, soft, anti-aliased, lovely, lovely.
Jeff, 64 colors, 120K, with a diffusion,
dither, and transparency.
But now look at the quality difference.
Even though I've got a larger file here,
I obviously can get better
compression with Jeff,
but when you start looking
at the quality difference,
particularly the way
Jeff tends to dither,
Jeff has to use dither to
replicate colors that aren't
inside its color palette,
the quality is so much nicer.
Look particularly right
around the eye here,
and right around the eye here.
And then this is JPEG at best, 344,
and you get no transparency with it.
And it's lossy,
so if you have to open the file up,
edit it again, and save it out again,
it's putting compression on
compression on compression.
JPEG 2000 now is a little
bit different thing.
JPEG, standard JPEG, and JPEG 2000 are
completely different codecs.
JPEG 2000 is excellent quality,
good size,
poor compatibility at this point because
not everybody has caught on to it yet.
There are still better compressors,
and in general right now I still
think Ping is a little bit
better compressor than JPEG 2000.
It's only available
in OS X for QuickTime.
There is a Photoshop plug-in for
creating JPEG 2000 files that is
available from this particular vendor,
from Lead Technologies,
and this is a URL for it.
and you know, it'll be in the,
it'll be in our home game.
So, here's a little bit of a
side-by-side comparison.
JPEG 2000 uses something
called wavelet compression.
Without getting into a lot of detail,
it's just better.
This is the bad Santa.
So, here's JPEG.
Here's JPEG 2000.
Look right around the eye particularly
at how much artifacting there is.
JPEG?
JPEG 2000.
So even the detail in the mustache and,
you know, it's just scary to look
at my own head this large.
Anyway.
Okay, so, best all-round codecs,
and the winners are:
For video delivery, MPEG-4 and SV3.
MPEG-4 for compatibility,
SV3 for slightly higher quality.
Again, a year from now,
we'll be having a different conversation.
H.264 changes the landscape.
For audio, go with AAC.
For a general purpose audio codec,
it's the best thing that
you have available to you.
Graphics, paying every time.
And for video and audio transfer,
my favorite is still Animation Best.
[Transcript missing]
For more information, a couple of sites.
Being the self-serving jerk I am,
I put mine first.
So QuickTiming.org,
which strangely enough
is at QuickTiming.org.
I have news, tutorials, reviews,
all related to QuickTime.
My ultimate goal is world
domination by QuickTime.
So, lots and lots of stuff on there.
I try to cover anything
that's related to QuickTime,
and that's almost anything that
falls into the digital hub sphere.
iTunes is QuickTime, iMovie is QuickTime,
Final Cut Pro is QuickTime, iDVD,
DVD Studio Pro is QuickTime.
I'm missing a whole bunch of things here,
but, you know,
QuickTime is the architecture
that runs all of this stuff.
And in addition to that,
I also have a news section
that's updated fairly often,
usually about three times a week,
sometimes more often as
things are happening.
And a newsletter that you can
sign up for that I refer to as
my regular irregular newsletter.
It kind of goes out either when
I have something really important
to say or when I feel like it.
Martin, and I've never actually
pronounced Martin's last name,
because I've only met him by email.
But Martin has a QuickTime compatibility
chart on his website.
Oh, and he says hi, Amy.
It is a very, very complete listing of
all the QuickTime codecs,
audio, image, video,
and what version of QuickTime they
were introduced with.
Really tremendously useful resource.
And last but not least, I wrote a book.
If you buy it,
I don't have to eat my dog.
Anyway,
Quick Timers Guide to Web Video will
be out in a few weeks.
If you go to books.ursamajormedia.com,
which is my publishing company,
because I'll be honest,
I'm a control freak,
and you can actually get
it at a discount right now.
And that's my little commercial message.
And this is who to contact
for more information.
I'm at cliff@quicktiming.org.
Fairly easy to remember.
And then Guillermo,
QuickTimeMan@apple.com.